---
layout: post
title: Well, What is Hukou?
author: edward
date: '2021-11-16 10:07:32'
intro_paragraph: ''
categories: misc
---
The Hukou system is the Chinese framework for registering families in a household.
A house registration record officially distinguishes an individual as an inhabitant
of a specific area by including recognizing data like an individual's name, guardians,
mate, and date of birth. This system was originally created as “a means to maintain a
sense of social order, protect the rights of Chinese citizens” and “be of service to
the establishment of socialism.” (Boquen, 2021). 

## Is Hukou tied to Social Welfare? 

Well, for starters, non-agricultural Hukou holders have access to a variety of government
programs including healthcare, employment, retirement pensions, housing, and education.
Rural communities, on the other hand, are expected to care for themselves. Leaving rural
families to fend for themselves and completely depend on their land to survive makes it
extremely difficult for those families with no healthcare or government benefits to live.
This has created a two-tier class system and has made life harder for rural and migrant families.

## Hukou through the Lens of Democracy:

The unfair advantages that those who live in the cities hold,
versus those who live in rural areas, create inequality in a
system where each person should be represented. In this case,
democracy would push for the eligibility of every person in need
to hold an urban Hukou status. Liberal democracy would endorse protection
for individual liberty and property. So, Ultimately, the Hukou system has
a minimal relationship to democracy, but it is a system formed to protect people’s rights
in a sense. In the end, it is an undemocratic system that has strained economic growth and
has treated those without Hukou status as second-class citizens, limiting welfare under a
Confucian cultural context.